.TH AXON 1 "April 2026" "Axon" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
axon \- streaming security evidence normalization and export CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B axon
[\fIGLOBAL OPTIONS\fR]
.I COMMAND
[\fICOMMAND OPTIONS\fR]
[\fIARGUMENTS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Axon ingests security scanner output, normalizes findings into a canonical
evidence model, deduplicates and correlates related findings, and exports the
result in machine-consumable formats such as JSON, SARIF, and AWS ASFF.
.PP
The current ingest architecture uses two passes. Pass 1 streams and records
compact metadata. Pass 2 rehydrates only selected findings by byte offset,
which reduces memory retention during export.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B normalize
Normalize one or more reports into the internal evidence model.
.TP
.B ingest
Alias for
.BR normalize .
.TP
.B completion
Generate shell completion scripts for bash, zsh, or fish.
.TP
.B serve
Start the gRPC ingress server.
.TP
.B worker
Start worker mode for the distributed ingestion path.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Normalize a report to JSON on stdout:
.B axon normalize report.json
.TP
Read input from stdin:
.B cat trivy.json | axon ingest \-
.TP
Write SARIF output to a file:
.B axon normalize --format sarif --output findings.sarif report.json
.TP
Run with a policy and baseline:
.B axon normalize --policy policy.yaml --baseline baseline.json report.json
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/axon/
System configuration directory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/axon/
User configuration directory.
.TP
.I /var/log/axon/axon.log
Default log file path.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B AXON_LOG_LEVEL
Set the log level.
.TP
.B AXON_LOG_FORMAT
Set the log format to console or json.
.TP
.B AXON_LOG_PATH
Override the log file path.
.TP
.B AXON_WORKERS
Override worker concurrency defaults.
.TP
.B AXON_CONFIG_PATH
Override the discovered configuration path list.
.SH AUTHOR
Axon Maintainers.
.SH LICENSE
Apache License 2.0.
